The Joe Rogan experience. No, well.
You get compared to him a lot. And, um, one in one way,
I really saw that comparison was your brilliant coverage of the financial
crisis. And what was the,
the mechanisms behind the scene of the financial crisis?
And that I became a really big fan of your work, uh,
reading that because th that, I think you covered that as well,
if not better than anyone. Oh, well, thanks. Yeah. I mean.
So I knew nothing about any,
I couldn't even balance my checkbook when they assigned me to that story. And,
um, and I had to start basically from square one and, uh,
I was calling people and saying things like,
can you tell me something about something that I'll understand? You know,
I was cold calling investment banks and literally saying that,
and I finally got a guy to, to, um, have lunch with me.
And he said,
your problem is that you're trying to understand this as an economic story.
Um, once you look at it as a crime story, you'll get it. Uh,
and, and from that point forward, I, I totally, I felt like I,
I started to understand the whole mechanism, you know,
the subprime mortgage scam. It really was a scam. It's really,
it's really just a massive corporatized version of like
selling, uh, oregano is weed, basically. Uh, they,
they took stuff that these, these incredibly worthless, uh,
highly risky mortgage loans, right. You know,
they would give out loans to everybody with a pulse. Um, you know,
whether you had a job or not, whether you were a citizen or not, didn't matter,
port thing was to get the loan immediately sell it off, chop it up,
turn it into securities. And then they use this highly advanced,
um, sort of mathematical trick to turn all that sort of
mortgage hamburger into AAA rated securities. So you'd have like a, you know,
a junk rated mortgage, like the riskiest, uh,
loan in existence, uh,
something that was so toxic that it country companies like Countrywide wouldn't
want to hold onto it for more than a week because they were afraid it would,
this stuff would blow up and then they would sell it off to like a pension fund
or, um, you know,
an insurance company in the form of a AAA rated security, which,
you know, is as safe as a us treasury bond. So it was, it was a scam.
Uh, again, the, the, the, the, the, the metaphor of,
you know, baby powder taking baby powder and selling it as Coke or whatever,
that that's exactly what it was.
They just took worthless and sold it as something that was, that was gold.
Uh, and they got, they did it for years and years and years and years. And they,
they knew that this gigantic huge bubble of risk
and disaster was just accumulating.
And that someday it was going to all explode and cascade and
ruin the economy, but everybody was trying to time it right.
And, and bet on when that would happen and make their money before that,
that judgment day came. And, uh, it was,
it was fascinating once I, once I started to learn about it, it was just such a,
an amazingly disgusting, uh, fascinating story that, um,
it was just hard not to, not to get into it.
Crime story. Yeah. Think of it as a crime story. Yeah.
Yeah, no, absolutely. I even got one guy gave me a book.
Um, it was called famous, famous con artists in history. Right.
It was like this little tome, uh, it's smaller than like the smallest paperback.
And it was the biography of this guy.
Victor Lustig was his name.
He was famous because he sold the Eiffel tower twice. Right. Uh,
and, um, he H he had this, uh,
the scam that he called, I think it was called the, the,
the Hungarian box. Um, I'll have to go back and look,
but basically what he would do is he would get on a boat,
um, in New York. And he had this, uh,
sort of beautiful mahogany box with a crank on it that had two holes in it.
And he would show all the guests that he would put a blank piece of paper in one
end turn, a crank, and a hundred dollar bill would come out the other end. Uh,
and he convinced them all that it was a machine that made money.
And, uh,
everybody would offer him an increasing amount of money for this invention.
Uh, and he wouldn't sell it until the last day, uh, when he would sell it for,
you know, 40 or $50,000.
And then he would disappear and jump off the boat in France.
Never be seen again. People would, yeah, there it is. What's it called?
Wow. Yeah. Um, but, um,
but that's exactly what the mortgage.
Is. Yeah. Let me see his face.
Look at that creep. Look.
At him. Wow. Let me see that box again.
Wow. That is crazy.
So, yeah, so it was obviously fake and, and,
but that's what the Morgan scam was. They, they,
they were taking basically blank paper. These,
these subprime loans that belong to janitors who were going to
foreclose within 10 minutes. All right.
And they were telling people that, oh,
we have this new mathematical process that allows,
that actually makes this stuff really safe. Um,
and you can put it in your, uh,
in your college endowment, you can put in your pension fund.
And so all these people, you know,
whose retirement monies were based on securities,
we're buying all this that they thought was triple aerated.
And that's, that's how they woke up. And, you know, and in 2008, 2009,
and they found their 401k is where were, you know,
wiped out by 40% or whatever it was. My neighbor.
Really did that happened. Then my neighbor bought this plot of land and, uh,
had this, uh, dream to build his dream house. And, uh,
he would go buy the plot of land and he was always cleaning up and getting
ready. And I was talking to him and then boom, 2008 happened.
He lost everything. And he would still go by that plot of land and cleaning up.
And he, and I would talk about it and, you know,
they just told me he lost everything.
Yeah. So it's never going to happen, huh? Yeah, no, I think he, uh.
I think he died. He eventually got really sick and they,
they took him out of his house and brought them somewhere.
But I think he's dead now, but yeah, his, uh,
his story was awful, awful to hear this guy who was in his sixties,
who had got this piece of land with a nice view. And it's like,
this is where I'm going to drink, build my dream house.
And he had all this money prepared for it,
all this money saved away and he was ready to rock and roll and then boom,
it all went out.
It just drained out somebody put a hole in the bottom of the boat and
everything, everything went to the bottom on the ocean.
Yeah.
And then he probably got ripped off twice because his tax dollars went to go
bail out the guys who, uh, you know, who, who cause some of the,
some of the banks got stuck holding some of this.
And rather than eat the losses, like your, your friend did,
they got the federal reserve to buy it from them, you know, and,
and you know, or, or the treasury.
So how the did they get away with giving the CEOs bonuses.
During that time? Yeah. Bonuses.
During the time where the, they had to be bailed out by the taxpayers.
Yeah. That was another scam. Like, so there were,
if you looked at the fine print of all the bailouts,
it's it basically said that, um,
you had to repay the money by us by X time, uh,
before you could start paying people, exorbitant amounts of money again. Uh,
but a lot of those, a lot of those conditions were never really followed.
And, you know, the,
the conditions of repayment were kind of glossed over. And,
um, the, the,
the companies that they were supposed to be able to pass these things called
stress tests, which, uh,
demonstrated that they were back on solid footing again,
before they paid people, uh, bonuses.
But the stress tests were all fudged. And, you know, I mean, th th there were,
there was crime and corruption,
illegality basically in every direction during that whole period. And, and,
uh, not just in the government, but in, in all of these companies as well.
Jesus. Yeah. But fascinating to, to follow.
Yeah. What was it like covering that? I mean,
how long did you spend working on it? Uh, seven years. Probably.
Yeah.
Yeah. Well,
cause one of the things that I found out that it was really interesting was
I did my first story about this and I got this incredible
reaction because it turns out that the financial press there is nobody
in the financial press who writes for ordinary people.
Like it's basically what I was doing was a translation job.
I was trying to basically take what had happened and
explain it in a way that a person who knew nothing about finance would be able
to understand. Uh, and it turns out that nobody is doing that.
So all of these people who had questions about it, who,
who wanted to know what had happened to their money, or why to,
why did my house get foreclosed on or what, you know, what's,
what's a subprime mortgage or anything. Um,
you know, there, there was nobody else doing that work.
So I had lots of it to do, and it was,
it was really interesting and I just kept doing it. Wow.
That'd be depressing. Yeah. Oh yeah, of course. Of course. I mean, most,
most investigative reporting is depressing. Uh, well.
Particularly that, because, I mean, a lot of it was old people. Oh my.
God. Old people, minorities. I mean, uh, I did one story about,
um, a bank, uh, in Maryland. Well, it's a national bank,
it's a bank that, you know,
I wouldn't be surprised that a lot of people listening,
how have their accounts at this bank, um, they, uh,
had to pay a settlement to the government because they were, uh,
intentionally targeting elderly black people, uh,
to sell subprime mortgages to, and they called the mud people. Uh,
and there were all these,
these like toxic emails going back and forth about how stupid they were and how
they'll buy anything, et cetera, et cetera, emails, they call the mud people.
Yeah. Yeah. And so they had to pay a settlement to the government. And, but the,
you know, the racial component of the, of,
of that crash was something that I didn't really clue into until late,
but that was a big part of it too. It was, um,
a lot of it involved these mortgage lenders
going into particularly like lower middle class,
black neighborhoods and knocking on doors where there be like an elderly person
at home and saying, Hey, would you like to refi your mortgage?
And you'll have a little bit of extra spending money this month, right.
And the person won't know anything about finance and they'll
they'll sign this refinance deal that allows them to save a little bit of money
each month,
not knowing that they had just converted their fixed mortgage into a floating
mortgage. And that as soon as the interest rates change, you know,
you'd have people who went from paying $900 a month to paying
$7,000 a month. Right. And suddenly they're out in the street and,
and, you know, the, uh, the company that sold them,
the loan is long gone by then. They, they, they're not holding it. They,
as soon as they got her name on the dotted line,
they sold it off to a bank in New York who in turn again,
chopped it up into hamburger and sold it probably to your pension fund or who,
or whatever. So there was nobody she could complain to. And, you know, yeah.
That's stuff. It was really depressing.
It's a feeling like of having very little understanding about finance and then
immersing yourself in it.
And that was fascinating that this is the underlying structure that our society
is run on, that our money is established through. This is,
this is how we, we sell houses and loans.
And this is what we're doing. This is.
Yeah, no, it was, it was fascinating. I, because before that,
I was mostly covering like elections, right. And again,
if you cover elections,
it's incredibly boring and you never hear anything of substance and it's not
terribly complicated. And, you know, one, one, the Democrats says that,
you know, we want to help the middle class.
And the Republican says we want to protect family values.
And that's pretty much the extent of the intellectual challenge in terms of
covering that stuff. And I always thought to myself, you know,
politics in America must be a lot more complicated than this, right.
There must be some other hidden thing where
it's incredibly complex and diabolical and, and, you know, the,
the real machinations of power must be visible somewhere. And,
um, I think that you find that when you, when you start looking at the,
how wall street works, how money works, how central banking works, how,
um, you know, how the concentration of wealth works.
Uh, I mean, basically the subprime scheme was
an effort to pull the remaining savings out of the population, right?
It just wasn't, you know, in the old days, invest in banks,
made their money by lending money,
to companies who would build factories and they would make stuff and sell it
around the world. And everybody would make money and never, you know, even,
even the population would, would, would benefit from it.
But that manufacturing economy, it's all gone it's overseas.
So you have this financialized economy and they have no
normal beneficial, uh, way to make money. And all their,
all they can really do is look to see where is their money and how can we get
it? And most people had money in their houses, right?
Like the, the accumulated savings of most people,
whatever was left after the internet crash in the nineties, uh,
was in real estate.
And this was the scam by which they
took the wealth that was left in the pockets of ordinary people and
transferred it to, you know, nine people in Manhattan, basically. I mean,
that's why you have, you know,
we told them when we talk about wealth inequality now, right.
It being a huge factor that, you know, the top, you know,
95, I'm sorry,
the top 1% of the population owns 90% of the wealth in the country or whatever
it is. Um, that's a consequence of schemes like this, where they're just,
they're, they're finding out where people have a little bit of money and they're
systematically coming up with scams to move it from there to here and with no
consequence, no, with no consequences.
And that was the other part of the story that I ended up having to cover later,
which was, you know, the, the last time they tried something like this,
like during the SNL crisis, which,
which was also sort of a giant fraud scheme,
also that involved real estate lending. And, you know,
but that the government after that actually, you know, indicted 1800 people,
they put 800 people in jail. They put a lot of, you know,
serious influential people on the dock after that. Uh,
nobody, nobody went to jail after this stuff. And, and there was,
and people think that, well,
they didn't do anything that was technically illegal, no. There,
there was lots of stuff that was, that was brazenly, uh,
criminally illegal. I mean, they, they committed fraud on a broad scale. Uh,
but some of these companies were into the things that were even worse than that.
I mean, you take HSBC,
HSBC admitted to laundering
$850 million for a pair of, uh, central and south American drug cartels, uh,
including the Sinaloa cartel. Right. Which is suspected in thousands of murders,
like, and, you know, they,
they admitted to this activity,
they agreed to a deferred prosecution agreement with the government
where nobody did a day in jail.
No individual had to pull out a dime out of their own pockets to pay the
shareholders, ponied up $1.9 million. But some of that was tax deductible,
which means we P we paid some of that fine. Um, and,
uh,
and the only real punishment with any teeth is that some of the executives had
to partially defer their bonuses for five years. Uh,
so that's,
it laundering $850 million for narco terrorists
gets you a total walk. Uh, you know,
that tells you basically everything you need to know about, you know,
do we prosecute white collar crime in this country? Basically? No. You know,
I mean, that's the answer ultimately that you find out.
And there was paperwork that showed they knew it was from the cartels.
Oh yeah. They, if you, if you look at the, the, the agreement,
uh, and you can watch the third, there's a, there's a video of, um,
of Loretta Lynch and Lanny Breuer.
Cause this was before Laura Loretta Lynch was attorney general, but she was, um,
uh, she was basically the head of this deal. Um,
they talked about the fact that the HSBC branches,
because most of this was done in Mexico, um, uh, H max,
which was the subsidiary company, they had special teller windows built,
uh, to fit cash boxes that the drug cartels were bringing into the bank.
Uh, so basically you've seen these,
seeing the scene in Scarface where the guys come in with duffel bags of cash to
the bank. Right. And, you know, that's like a montage, you know, there's that,
that song, I forget what song it is in the background, same thing.
These guys would come into the, the bank.
They would slide in these boxes of cash one after the other.
And that's admitted activity, the bank signed off on this. They, you know,
it's not like they're contesting it.
They're not saying we neither admit nor deny it's, it's part of the deal.
Uh, so, and, and they agreed to the amount, everything. So,
um, yeah, it was a $1.9 billion settlement, but, you know,
it's not like it came out of the pockets of the people who did it,
and it's not like any of the people who did it are in jail. It's just, you know,
a thing that happened and, you know, that's five weeks of profit for the bank.
So what, what the? They don't care.
Right. Did.
You see the documentary, the inside job?
Uh, yeah. Yup. We covered a lot of the same territory. Yeah. That.
Was a sobering documentary where they're talking to the very people that caused
the financial crisis and, and realizing that these people were economics,
professors that eventually got these jobs really lucrative jobs with
banks and how they finagled this system and made it.
So it looked like these things were appropriate.
Yeah, no. I talked to some of the,
some of the things that they invented that made this,
the crash possible sounded like good ideas. Like they,
they came up with this thing called the credit default swap. Right.
And I won't bore you with what that is exactly.
But basically it's a kind of insurance, uh, where,
uh, it's, it's basically a bet. It's hard to explain. Um, but,
uh, it, it's a way of, of quasi insuring a product,
um, without having to pony up a lot of money. Uh,
and the it's it's called the derivative. Right.
Uh, and these instruments are completely unregulated. Um,
how can I put this? A credit default swap is, is like, uh,
you and I betting on whether or not a third person's house is going
to, uh, burn in a fire, right?
Like the old school insurance said that it had to be your house in order for you
to get insurance on it. Um,
this new form of quasi insurance said that two totally
disinterested parties could have an interest in a, in a,
in a third thing that happens. So it's basically gambling. Uh, and,
um, on the one hand,
it allowed people to create a whole lot of capital,
which allowed them to lend more money,
which theoretically allowed people to buy more houses. But in reality,
it just created the system where all these people had bets that were back and
forth on, on all these properties. That's one of the reasons why the,
when the crash happened, when, when all those mortgages started to fail,
it wasn't just the failures of those properties.
It was all these people who were betting on whether or not these people could,
could pay their mortgages. They started to lose money.
And then there were people who had bets on that, who started to lose money.
And it's like this cascading Whirlpool of that happened. And,
um, again, it just, it started out as an idea to just create more money to lend,
to land. And it turned into this nightmare, uh,
mechanical scenario that just, that created losses, uh,
you know, in this almost apocalyptic fashion. And,
and a lot of them had no idea that, that, that was going to be the adventure.
Wow. Yeah. It's, it's, it's crazy. It's definitely crazy stuff.
As a person who didn't really follow finance before,
how much has that affected your life now? Like the way you look at things?
I definitely pay a lot more attention to the fine print,
uh, when I enter into any financial contract. Um,
I think about where I do my banking. Uh,
but the reality is you just don't have a whole lot of choice in this country.
Anyway. I mean, it's like everything else. There's only a few companies left.
Um, so almost every bank, uh,
that's out there where you can have a bank account and a mortgage is,
is a bank that I've written about some massive scandal, uh, before. So,
uh, that, that's, that's a problem. Um, but, uh, yeah,
I worry about it all the time. I mean,
I have friends in finance who call me and they, they tell me that,
you know, that the things that are incredibly unsafe and that this, that,
and the other could, could, could happen.
And so I have an anxiety level about things that I never had before. But, um,
apart from that, yeah, I mean, that's a natural consequence of,
of having to spend seven years looking at all these horror stories,
crazy. It's crazy. You spent their lunch time on it.
Do you see any other bubbles coming up?
Yeah. People talk about that all the time. Um,
there's a lot of, um,
a lot of negative press about subprime auto loans, for instance, which is,
uh, it's not exactly the same, but it's a similar thing. I mean,
th th the same basic scam of taking
loans chopping them up and then repackaging them as something
that's more valuable than the original loan. You can do that with anything,
any kind of credit. You can do it with credit cards,
you can do it with aircraft loans. You can do it with, with car loans,
you can do it with, with home mortgages. Um, and so the,
the mechanism of taking things that are,
are toxic and risky and making them look like triple a is still,
uh, is still part of the economy. And, um, it's everywhere.
The plus side of that is that there's more credit available. Uh, you know,
almost anybody can get a credit card, or even if you've had screwed up credit,
you can get a car, you know, I mean, uh, there's.
Put us on this, like endless cycle of buildup, bubble collapse, buildup,
bubble collapse, rebounding collapse again.
Absolutely. I mean, I think that's, that's, that's why, yeah.
You have to be nervous about the, you know,
the skyrocketing stock exchange because we've had verified.
Yeah. I mean, you should be right. Do you have heavily invested in it?
I've got some in there.
I just did. When, when the whole,
when Trump was saying the economy's never been better,
I look at the stock market stock, market's killing it all these days,
and then it'll have a bad day and you'll go, okay, well,
I thought we were doing great. Like, what's going on with this bad day?
Can you not control these bad days? Like what's happening here. Right.
If you're, if you're in control of the good days,
you're also in control of the bad days, right? Yeah, of course. Of course.
It just, it seems, it seems super suspicious.
Yeah. And, and yeah, in the old days, you'd have a lot of confidence that,
well, the stock market always eventually goes up, so yeah,
there's going to be bad days, but it'll, it'll go back up.
But the problem is the underlying economy in America, just isn't all that hot,
you know, like w like, what do we really make in this country? What, what,
where where's the floor, right? Like we have,
we have some industries that sorta perform well, but if, you know,
periodically we go through these bubbles that are based on nothing more than
enthusiasm. Uh, you know, in the nineties, it was the, the, the,
the tech bubble, right. Where people like Alan Greenspan would say things like,
well, we have a new paradigm and you can omics rights. So, um,
it doesn't matter whether a company hasn't shown any ability to
make money or, um, you know, has no,
uh, reasonable profit and loss statements. It's just, if it's a good idea,
the stock is sound and everybody should invest in it.
And the stock market is going to continually go up, go up.
So don't worry about it. Of course, that doesn't happen. Everybody. It blows up,
everybody loses their shirt, but what, what do they do?
The fed lowers interest rates basically allows wall street to
recapitalize, drink itself sober. And they plunge into the next,
the next madness, which is mortgages. And once again,
you have Alan Greenspan saying, Hey, you know,
real estate is a great bet. It's, you know, it's going to continually ascend.
People should use their homes as ATM machines. You know, you should,
you should consider refinancing your house so that you can get a little bit of
extra cash. And, and this, this,
this was actually the message they sent to America. And again,
it creates this artificial mania where the economy is
stoked, artificially, uh,
two gigantic dimensions, but it's not based on anything. And so when,
when it, it crashes, when you finally get like any Ponzi scheme, it, you know,
it depends,
it depends on more new investors coming in than old investors leaving. Right.
So there's always going to be that moment when suddenly we don't have as many
new ones as old ones. And the instant that happens,
it all goes Kaboom. Right. And that's what happened with, with, uh,
the subprime market. There was a moment in time where the,
they just couldn't keep it going anymore.
They couldn't find any more new suckers to get to,
to sell mortgages to. And the mania ended and it all went splat.
And then it was amplified by the fact that we have this system now of people
betting on credit, uh, that is legal, um,
which creates more losses out of, out of thin air. So, yeah,
I I'm terrified every time I see this, the stock market go up,
what's it based on, is it based on our economy actually doing well?
I don't know. I don't think so. You know, um, I'm sorry. I'm look, look,
I'm scaring you a little bit. You're definitely a scary, okay.
But I think that's good. I think I need to be scared.
I tend to take these things and just, you know,
I have financial advisors that I like let them handle money. Right.
When I hear things like this, I just go, oh Jesus.
W w I get terrified when I hear about really smart people getting scammed like
yesterday, we were talking about, uh, [inaudible]
. Do you know that a blood testing company that turned out to be total horseshit? No, I didn't hear about this. Oh, it's
a great story. It's a, it's a story of, uh,
one of those things where you, you find someone who you hope exists and you build them up. There was this woman
, uh,
she looked like Steve jobs. She wore a black turtleneck in every photo. And,
uh,  she was, uh,
the, the richest ever self-made woman. She was worth $4 billion.
She had, uh, built this company called Marranos right out of college.
She was like 19.
When she started the company was a blood testing company that just required a
small prick of your blood to do complicated blood analysis for diseases and
things along those lines. It turns out it didn't work at all. And, uh,
Dave faked a bunch of, and widespread fraud.
A lot of people got their blood tested. It turned out to be, you know, they,
they were at risk for all these diseases. And, uh,
Warren buffet have invested a hundred million dollars, I think 1 25,
uh, Betsy Davos, uh, more than a hundred million dollars.
Like all these super wealthy people get scammed. Wow. Yeah.
When you find out that really wealthy people that do this for a living
and buffet does that for a living, right. That he can get scammed out of
$125 million. Right. Yeah.
And, and, and Warren buffet is his mantra is supposed to be
picking the,
the absolute long-term investment. Right. So it's not,
he's not like a Stevie Cohen type who just looks at the tape and tries to time
it just, right. So, you know, you can,
you can make an investment for 10 seconds and come out with, with a, you know,
if he, if he's investing in a company and, and even he can be fooled, that's,
that's pretty terrible. But look at Enron. I mean, and Ron was,
was another example of the world's best financial analysts were looking at this
company for a decade.
And the, the results were completely ridiculous.
Like, it should have been obvious to any lay person that, that, uh,
these profit numbers couldn't possibly be real. Uh,
and it wasn't until, uh, one of those guys, uh,
I think it was Jim channels. It was sort of a famous short seller. Um,
men sort of said, Hey, wait a minute that there's something up here. Um,
but people continually invested in these companies,
and there's just not a whole lot of oversight that goes on, um, uh, with,
with wall street. And I think that's, that's a major lesson of, of, uh,
you know, the last 20 years is that,
is that there's just not a lot of eyes on, on crime in this area.
Another example is, um, uh, I'm sorry,
who's the guy who scammed all the rich people. Yeah.
I was going to bring him up. He used the most egregious example, right? Yeah.
I mean, there, there are other, there are other people who did similar things.
Um, but this guy didn't even make investments. Right. You know what I mean?
Like he, he was literally just sort of taking money and, you know,
when someone cashed out, he would, you know, it was,
it was like a who's that little girl, a little tag, a little tag. Yeah, exactly.
Just like throwing, he had a big pile of cash and, you know, he would,
he would take some man and throw some out. But if the sec had had at any time,
just looked at his books and said, what are you invested in? Um,
it all would have, you know,
that whole house of cards would have fallen and invest in anything.
And he wasn't, he wasn't making trades. He wasn't doing anything, you know? And,
and there were a bunch of stories like this. Uh,
there's a great book called the octopus, which about as somebody who did a,
Maydoff like scam, another hedge fund, um, where same thing,
they weren't really making trays.
They were just sort of creating phony profit and loss statements and, and,
and creating records that look like trades. Uh, they could, they,
they could tell their investors about, but they weren't actually doing anything.
So if anybody,
any expert at any time had just poke their nose
into this person's books, they would have seen it in 10 seconds. That's the,
I mean, that's the amazing thing about this. Um, you know, not,
not to get back to, you know, my, my drug dealing book,
but this is one of the things that he says, which is that, you know,
you can be in a, you know,
in a poor black neighborhood and a couple of kids will be on a cell phone
talking about selling $10 worth of weed.
And there'll be picked up by cops w you know,
within 20 minutes or something like that. Meanwhile, you know,
somebody like, uh, you know,
Bernie Madoff can commit a hundred million dollar frauds year after
year after year, and not even do any take any effort to try to,
to cover it up all that well, and get away with it. Well, Bernie's.
Big crime was that he ripped off rich people. Yeah, absolutely.
He had done the exact same thing to poor Pete. Well, what he did was just,
it was just too easy to call what he did a crime versus what you were talking
about with these financial issues.
Right? Yeah. Yeah. If he, if he had lawn, if he had laundered it through a,
a slightly more legitimate process, he would have gotten out fine. But the,
one of the things that a lot of these guys, these scam artists get into it,
thinking that they're actually gonna be real hedge funds. Um,
and that they,
they have some stock picking system that's actually gonna make all their clients
money. And one of the things they find out is that a they suck, they, they,
they're not outperforming the market and they're not that smart,
but B that their clients can't tell if they just make up the numbers.
So there,
there are a number of cases of people who start out trying to be legitimate and
trying to be real, real investment advisors,
but they just end up turning into Bernie Madoff types because it's just easy.
There's no, there, there, there aren't that many people watching for it. And,
uh, you know, that that's kind of scary too well.
It's like, there's so many people doing it.
How could there be enough people watching it? Right.
Think about how many investment firms there are and how many different people
that are involved in trading. How could anybody be watching all of it,
right? Yeah, no, they're.
There, but even, even,
so even if you take that into consideration than the,
than the number of eyes that are, that are on this world is,
is ridiculously low, like take, take AIG. All right.
AIG was one of the world's largest, uh,
companies that AI before, before it crashed, it had like 180,000.
Um, it was,
it took advantage of this weird loophole that allows financial companies to
essentially choose their own regulator. Um, so because,
because AIG had a thrift or a savings alone,
that's basically the same thing they chose to be regulated by,
um, the OTs, which is the office of thrift supervision,
which is this tiny, tiny little, um, uh, you know,
office in Washington that oversees basically savings and loan operations.
And in, in the OTs, this is, this is actually true.
The, they had exactly one insurance expert on staff.
So essentially with the world's largest insurance company was being regulated
by a government office that only had one person who really understood insurance
and, and even,
and even that person wouldn't have understood the,
the part of the company that blew up,
which was essentially an investment bank within the insurance company
that was creating these sort of highly advanced sort of derivative operations,
um, that no, that they just would not have been able to understand that stuff.
So
the government just does not place a lot of resources
into, you know,
keeping an eye on even the most basic things.
And when you compare that to law enforcement and other areas, you know,
is how many, how many people do we have, you know, worrying about bank,
bank robberies in this country or, or drugs, right. Or, you know,
how many people are, are being watched,
because there are marijuana dealers in other states. I mean, it,
it dwarfs the number of people who are watching for economic crimes.
Yeah. One person. Yeah. I just loved the, the name of it.
Office of thrift supervision. Yeah, exactly. I'm not.
Even sure it exists anymore. I think it was, it was merged into some other,
uh, cause there used to be the OCC, the officer of the control or the currency.
And I think they created a new regulator out of all of that after the crash.
But, um, but yeah, it, AIG shows its regulator and its regulator,
you know, was totally over-matched didn't couldn't understand.
And that's one of the reasons why the company blew up the company also blew up
because it was run by insurance people who didn't
understand it was basically wall streets, bookie.
All these people were betting.
All these investment banks were betting on whether or not mortgages were going
to fail or not.
And AIG was selling the product that they could use, uh,
to make those bets essentially. Or they were taking on insurance on,
on packets of mortgages. So if they exploded, you would get a payout,
right. Uh, it was, it's like, it's like buying an insurance policy,
your neighbor's house. If it goes up in flames, you get paid on it.
You get paid.
AIG was selling a product that allowed banks essentially to buy insurance on,
on houses, on mortgages. And if the,
if people foreclosed,
if the mortgage has failed or pools of mortgages failed,
uh, if you, if you bought that kind of insurance, you got these huge payouts.
So people were betting against mortgages basically.
And AIG was taking all this book. And, but the,
the heads of the company were old school insurance executives and just didn't
understand this sort of new fangled, um,
complicated form of insurance.
And so they would look at the numbers that they were being given,
and even they didn't get it. They didn't, they didn't understand the, how,
how exposed they were. And so when all the bets started going the wrong way,
suddenly they're being asked to pay out billions of dollars. And they're like,
whoa, wait, where is this coming from? So,
so even the companies were kind of clueless about the that was going on.
It turns out jeez. Yeah.